---
layout: post
title: The Joy of Running
image: /img/hello_world.jpeg
<!-- bigimg: /img/path.jpg -->
tags: [running, joy, ultra marathon, Laura, Denyse Hannon, Olivia Hemloc, Jim Fitch]
---

I enjoy running with other runners. In 2002 I ran the Baltimore Marathon with my daughter Laura. She
had never run any races before, trained for 6 months prior to the event, and raised money for an AIDS
clinic in Washington DC. In 2011 I ran the Philadelphia Marathon with Denyse Hannon. It was her first
marathon. The first photo below was taken a few hundred yards from the finish and you can see the big
smile on Denyse's face. That's me with the blue shirt. In 2012 I ran the Drake Well Marathon with another
"first-timer", Olivia Hemlock. It was great to be with Laura, Denyse and Olivia at the end of their
first marathons to experience their joy. Memories of them will be with me forever. There is nothing
quite like running with a first-timer and I recommend it to all runners.

Jim Fitch introduced me to ultramarathoning in 2005. Among other things, he told me about the Mohican
100 Mile Trail Run and mentioned pacers. In many ultras, a runner is allowed to have a pacer who runs
or walks with the runner during some portion of the second half of the run. Later in 2005 I paced Jim
in the Mohican 100. That same year I ran the JFK 50 Miler. In 2012 I paced Jim for 30 miles of the Pine
Creek Challenge 100 Mile Run. The second photo below is at the 95 mile mark. Ultra runners and their
pacers often become good friends if they aren't already. This is another of the many joys of running.

ADD THOSE PICTURES
