## Dealing with Injuries

During my years of running I have experienced many injuries and some of these have been reoccurring.
These include injuries to my hips, groin areas, hamstrings, Achilles tendons, arches, and the balls
of my feet. At times my right knee has had some discomfort and when I was young I had a few bouts with
shin splints. Recently I developed a shin splint in my left leg by running a long hilly course after
not doing any hill running for awhile. Until I was in my late sixties I was mainly able to deal with
injuries by stretching and cutting back on my speed and mileage. Quite a few times when one of my
Achilles tendons bothered me I would run with extra heel lifts. The pain would eventually go away,
I would take the lifts out of my shoes and I would be fine. A few years ago injuries started to hang
on longer and I needed a better way to deal with them. Hopefully my recent approach to curing injuries
with self-massage will be of interest to other runners.

In 2010 at age 67, I started experiencing injuries that were especially serious and long lasting. First
an injury to my left calf  lasted for months. Whenever I would run fast for an extended time the calf
would tighten and I would end up walking home.  After a great deal of stretching every day and building
up speed slowly the injury healed.  Then, when I was 70, I experienced an Achilles tendon injury in
the same leg. Probably both injuries were related to the same tightness in my lower leg. The Achilles
tendon injury was different from any other I had experienced in that it lasted for over two years.
The Achilles tendon injury started out as a slight strain and for awhile I ignored it. The injury
became steadily worse. Eventually I inserted extra heel lifts in my shoes and started running mainly
with a rear foot strike rather than with my regular mid to forward foot strike. I also started running
mainly on grass. These steps allowed me to keep my mileage up. But as time went by, the injury became
even worse and my training speed lower. I included more walking in my workouts and limited my racing.
In 2014 I ran in just one event. Advice that I received concerning treatment suggested that I should
use very light massage of my tendon, lower leg, and calf either using my hands or a hand held massaging
unit. I think the idea is that light massage will stimulate the tendon to heal without further injuring
the tissue. I followed these suggestions and found some relief for awhile. But eventually my tendon
became extremely tight. During the same time period the balls of my feet, especially my right foot,
became painful at times. By September of 2014, when I was nearly 72, I was starting to think my running
days would soon come to an end. Then a wonderful thing happened. We were visiting our daughter,
Laura, and her family in The Netherlands. Laura suggested that I make an appointment with Michel
Dumonceau, a physiotherapist that had helped her. He uses the techniques of Myofascial Release and
Fascial Manipulation. At my appointment the Michel had me lie face down on his table and then he
vigorously massaged my calf, lower leg and my Achilles tendon with his very strong hands. When Michel
got to my Achilles the pain from the massage was very intense. At this point I started to have
misgivings about this treatment. I was especially afraid he was going to make the tendon worse. After
20 minutes I was about to tell him to stop when he asked me to stand up on my toes. That is when a
minor miracle occurred. My Achilles felt a lot better and I told Michel so. He said, "Okay let's work
on it some more." The more he massaged the better the tendon got. Next we talked about heel lifts.
Michel explained that lifts help only temporally and continued use eventually causes harm. Short term,
lifts make the Achilles feel better because they cause the sore tendon to not stretch as much as it
normally would during walking or running. But long term, lifts cause a slow shrinking in the tendon's
length because it is never stretched to its full extent. This further causes injury to the tendon
during running. I asked Michel if he thought I could run a 6 hour run in Amsterdam that was to occur
in a few days. He suggested it would be okay to start and then possibly not run the full 6 hours if
my Achilles bothered me too much. He also thought it would be okay to use heel lifts for protection
during the run but suggested that I not continue using them after that. A few days later I completed
50K with time to spare and then walked for the remainder of the 6 hours. This was my first race in
nearly a year. My tendon had some discomfort during the event and tightened some in the days to follow
but all in all it was okay. Luckily the ball of my right foot also only hurt a little probably because
the running path was mainly soft. Another appointment with the Michel again relieved the tension and
discomfort in my Achilles. During the few weeks that followed our visit to Amsterdam, I found that
my Achilles tightened and the ball of my right foot became painful. To relieve the discomfort I began
vigorously massaging my lower left leg and Achilles tendon and the ball of my right foot a couple of
times a week. My Achilles responded each time I did the massage but did not completely get better until
I started massaging it every day. Now I massage both tendons every day as a preventative measure. When
I first started vigorous self-massage my Achilles would have discomfort at the beginning of each
massage session. By the end of the session the tendon would feel considerable better. After about 3
months of daily massage the Achilles did not have discomfort at any time when I was massaging it or
when I was running. This is when I felt it was all better. Occasionally I enjoy running barefoot.
During the time of my Achilles tendon injury I was not able to run without shoes. Now, I am back to
kicking off my shoes and running on an all-weather track once in a while. I also tried massaging the
sore ball of my right foot. It did not respond until I also started stretching it in a certain way.
To stretch the bottom of my right foot, I put the tips of my fingers of both my hands under the toes
of this foot and my thumbs on the tops of the two toes next to my big toe. The thumbs are positioned
where the knuckles of the two toes stick up a little. Holding my toes in this way, I pull them upward
and back in the direction of my leg thereby stretching the muscles in the ball of my foot. I hold the
stretch for about 30 seconds and then I rest and repeat once. I started stretching my foot in this
way when it was very sore. I did it every day and the ball of my foot got better and better. After a
month my foot was considerably better. After two months I was able to run with no discomfort. I still
stretch and massage both balls of my feet almost every day as a protective measure. I totally recovered
from my injuries in early 2015. During the first year after my recovery my workouts became increasingly
more vigorous as I got in better and better shape. As my body adjusted to this increasing work load,
I occasionally experienced tightness to a hip, hamstring, knee and groin. These were all relieved by
self-massage. Self-massage even cured a shin splint in the matter of a few days. I am again running
with a mid to forward foot strike and this helps to stretch out my Achilles tendons and to keep them
healthy. I am convinced that had I not been introduced to vigorous massage and discovered self-massage
I would not be running nearly as well as I am now and possibly I would not be running at all. If you
have a serious or chronic problem you should consider seeing a physical therapist or massage therapist
who uses Myofascial Release and Fascial Manipulation. Also consider self-massage of the area and
surrounding area as follow-up.
