---
layout: post
title: Family, Running, and Photos
image: /img/hello_world.jpeg
<!-- bigimg: /img/path.jpg -->
tags: [running, family, photos]
---

Mary Jane and I have two children, Jamie and Laura. As mentioned above Laura and her family live in
Amsterdam. Jamie, his wife Sheryl and their two girls Lynnea and Abby live in Meadville, PA, the same
town as Mary Jane and I. Jamie was a very good runner in high school and college but gave up running
after he graduated from college in 1993. In 2015 he started to run again and ran in a few races with
his daughter Abby and me. The photo on the left below of Abby and Jamie was taken at the finish of the
Human Race in Meadville on Memorial Day 2015. I think the lighting is interesting. Also notice how both
runners have both feet off the ground at the moment the photo is taken. Photo by Mary Jane Lombardi.

The photo on the right was taken during the 2011 Amsterdam Marathon. Joe O'Brien and I are wearing
blue shirts. Mary Jane and I have stayed a few times in an apartment with a window that faces the
windmill seen in the background. As a matter of fact we were staying there at the time Maureen our
grandchild was born. The night before she was born Maureen's four grandparents had dinner in the
"Windmill View Apartment." It was just by chance that the photo was taken as we were passing the
windmill. Photo by John Collins of Amsterdam.

The third photo was taken after the Butler 5 Mile Run 2016. Gary Bell and I have run in many of the
same races during the last 30 years or so. I met Rod Brest a few years ago. Last year we started
running interval sessions together. I recently met Ron Bennett.

The fourth photo has [Colton McCurdy](coltonmccurdy.com) and me wearing Allegheny College sweaters. Colton is a computer
science major at Allegheny and I taught Physics for 34 years there. I retired in 2006. I have known
Colton since he was born. Colton helped me set up this website and I have enjoyed a few running
workouts with him recently (summer 2016).

ADD THOSE PHOTOS
